(GH-2313) Add plugin caching (#2383)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/experimental_features.md

subset of targets from the inventory. Plugins can sometimes take a long time to execute, and several
plugin invocations can add quite a bit of start up time to any Bolt command regardless of whether it
uses the plugin results.

To mitigate this we've introduced plugin caching. Plugin caching is enabled by configuring a
time-to-live (ttl) for the cache, either by setting a default ttl for all plugins with the
`plugin-cache` configuration option or by setting `ttl` under the `_cache` option for an individual
plugin invocation.  The ttl is always in seconds. Plugin results will be cached inside the Bolt
project, and all expired cache entries will be removed whenever Bolt uses a cache result. This
prevents cache entries from getting orphaned and never removed. Bolt identifies a cache result based
on a hash (delightfully named 'bubblebabble') of the entire plugin invocation, minus the `_cache`
key. If any element of the plugin invocation changes, Bolt will reload the plugin and update the
cache.

**NOTE**: Plugin results are currently cached in plaintext. Encrypted caching is planned for a
future release.

> Users can clear all cache entries using the `--clear-cache` or `-ClearCache` with any Bolt command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can clear all cache entries using the `--clear-cache` or `-ClearCache` command-line
option with any Bolt command.
```

Bolt team attempts to make these changes painless by providing useful warnings
around breaking behavior where possible. 

## Plugin caching

This feature was introduced in [Bolt TODO]()

Bolt supports the use of plugins to dynamically load information during a Bolt run and change how
Bolt executes certain actions. Bolt also loads all configuration plugins for most Bolt commands, and
all inventory plugins for any action that requires the inventory, even if the action only uses a
subset of targets from the inventory. Plugins can sometimes take a long time to execute, and several
plugin invocations can add quite a bit of start up time to any Bolt command regardless of whether it
uses the plugin results.

> To mitigate this we've introduced plugin caching. Plugin caching is enabled by configuring a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To mitigate the time it takes for Bolt to load plugins, we've introduced plugin caching. 
Plugin caching is enabled by configuring a
```

> time-to-live (ttl) for the cache, either by setting a default ttl for all plugins with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Time to Live (TTL) for the cache, either by setting a default TTL for all plugins with the
```

`plugin-cache` project configuration option or by setting `ttl` under the `_cache` option for an

> individual plugin invocation. The ttl is always in seconds. Plugin results will be cached inside the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
individual plugin invocation. The TTL is always in seconds. Bolt caches plugin results inside the
```

> Bolt project, and all expired cache entries will be removed whenever Bolt uses a cache result. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bolt project, and removes all expired cache entries whenever it uses a cache result. This
```

prevents cache entries from getting orphaned and never removed. Bolt identifies a cache result based
on a hash (delightfully named 'bubblebabble') of the entire plugin invocation, minus the `_cache`

> key. If any element of the plugin invocation changes, Bolt will reload the plugin and update the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
key. If any element of the plugin invocation changes, Bolt reloads the plugin and updates the
```

cache.

You can set `ttl` to 0 to disable caching for a particular plugin. Caching is disabled by default,

> so this is mostly useful if you have a default cache ttl configured under `plugin-cache` in your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so this is mostly useful if you have a default cache `ttl` configured under `plugin-cache` in your
```

`bolt-project.yaml` or `bolt-defaults.yaml` and want to disable caching for individual plugin
invocations.

> **NOTE**: Plugin results are currently cached in plaintext. Encrypted caching is planned for a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Plugin results are currently cached in plaintext. Encrypted caching is planned for a
```

future release.

Users can clear all cache entries using the `--clear-cache` or `-ClearCache` command-line option
with any Bolt command.

> This inventory sets a ttl of 1 hour, or 3600 seconds, for the PuppetDB plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This inventory sets a TTL of 1 hour, or 3600 seconds, for the PuppetDB plugin:
```

```
targets:
  - _plugin: puppetdb
    _cache:
      ttl: 3600
    query: "inventory[certname] { facts.osfamily = 'RedHat' }"
    target_mapping:
      name: certname
```

> This config file sets a default ttl of 30 minutes, or 1800 seconds, for all plugins:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This config file sets a default TTL of 30 minutes, or 1800 seconds, for all plugins:
```

```
plugin-cache:
  ttl: 1800
```

> **NOTE**: The same cache and cache configuration is used for the `resolve_reference()` plan

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: The same cache and cache configuration is used for the `resolve_reference()` plan
```
